# LLM-PDF-Chatbot
The project is a web-based PDF question-answering chatbot powered by Streamlit, LangChain, and OpenAI's Language Learning Models (LLMs). Users can upload PDFs, ask questions related to the content, and receive accurate responses.The system processes PDF text, creates embeddings, and employs advanced NLP models for efficient, natural language-based information retrieval. The user-friendly interface simplifies access to PDF content, offering diverse applications across industries and continuously improving question-answering capabilities.

# LLM Chatbot for PDF Question-Answering

**Welcome to the LLM Chatbot for PDF Question-Answering!**

This web application is designed to make PDF content accessible and interactive. It leverages advanced technologies to allow users to upload PDFs, ask questions related to the content, and receive accurate responses. Whether you're a student, researcher, or professional, this chatbot can simplify your access to information within PDF documents.

## Features

- Upload PDF files effortlessly.
- Ask open-ended questions about the PDF content.
- Receive detailed responses generated by the chatbot.
- Efficient text processing with advanced natural language understanding.

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:
   git clone https://github.com/Preshit22/LLM-PDF-Chatbot/edit/main/
2. Install the required dependencies:
   pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Run the application:
   streamlit run app.py
4. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:8501 to access the chatbot.

**Project Structure**

The project is structured as follows:

app.py: The main application script.
requirements.txt: List of dependencies required for the project.
env.example: An example environment variables file. You should create your own .env file with sensitive information.

**Technologies Used**

Streamlit: For creating the interactive web application.
PyPDF2: For working with PDF files.
LangChain: For text processing and embeddings.
OpenAI: For advanced language models.
FAISS: For efficient text search and retrieval.
dotenv: For managing environment variables.

**Acknowledgments***

We hope you find this tool useful for your PDF-related tasks! If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to reach out.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE.md file for details.






   
